Contents of MEA Energy Incentives (Listed in Order of Appearance)

Clean Energy and Resilience Section Programs

	Resilient Maryland Program
	Solar Energy Equity Program
	Solar Canopy and Dual Use Technology Program
	Community Solar LMI-PPA Program
	Public Facilities Solar Grant Program
	Residential Clean Energy Rebate Program (R-CERP)
	Commercial Clean Energy Rebate Program (C-CERP)
	Maryland Energy Storage Income Tax Credit Program
	Solar Technical Assistance Program

Energy Efficiency Section Programs

Maryland Smart Energy Communities 
AOI 1: Clean Energy for Local Governments (CELG)
AOI 2: Public Facilities Solar (PFS)
AOI 3: Clean Energy & Community Development (CECD)
AOI 4: Streetlight and Outdoor Lighting Efficiency (SOLE)
Jane E Lawton Loan Program
Decarbonizing Public Schools Program
Energy Efficiency Equity Program
Mechanical Insulation Program
Commercial, Industrial & Agricultural (CI&A) Grant Program

Transportation Section Programs

Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Rebate Program (EVSE)
Maryland Clean Cities Coalition Program
Medium-Duty and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicle Grant Program

Wind and Water Team Programs

Maryland Offshore Wind Supply Chain Investment Program
Maryland Offshore Wind Workforce Training & Education Program

OPEN Program 
	
	OPEN Program

Clean Energy and Resilience Section Program List and Purpose

Resilient Maryland Program
Funding Opportunity Announcement
Program Overview Document (ties the AOIs together in one program)
AOI 1: Preconstruction Planning FOA
AOI 2: Capital Support FOA
AOI 3: Resiliency Hubs FOA
Purpose: Provides preconstruction planning and capital construction grants for clean energy microgrids, resiliency hubs, resilient facility power systems, and certain types of combined heat and power (CHP) installations
Target Audience: Critical infrastructure (e.g., hospitals, wastewater treatment, food supply chains, etc.), Communities, Local Governments, Higher Learning Institutions, Agriculture, Manufacturing, Municipal Utilities, others on a case-by-case basis.
Technologies Funded: Microgrids, resiliency hubs, resilient facility power systems (technologies can vary based on use case and a host of other factors specific to sites, end-uses, and objectives).
Evaluation Criteria 
AOI 1 (Preconstruction Planning): Value Proposition; Greenhouse Gas Reduction; Equity; Resilience; and Creative Solutions.
AOI 2 (Capital Support): Value Proposition; Due Diligence & GHG Reduction; Equity; Resilience Capability; Clean Energy and Workforce Training; and Electrification.
AOI 3 (Resiliency Hubs): Site Justification; Hours of Operation; New Backup Generation Capability; Timeline to Complete; Inclusion of a Resiliency Hub Operation Plan; and Location in a LMIOU Community.


Solar Energy Equity Program: FOA
Purpose: Provides grants to Maryland nonprofit organizations and local governments to install solar PV systems at the homes of LMIOU Marylanders. Residents do not receive funds directly. Funds are provided to the nonprofits and LGs, who then use those funds to procure solar installers and pay for the actual installations. AOIs for purchased systems and third party owned systems.
Target Audience: Nonprofit Organizations and Local Governments
Technologies Funded: Solar PV, Limited Roof Repairs and Mold Remediation (to enable the solar PV installation).
Evaluation Criteria: Leveraging Factor; Number of Homes with EE Upgrades; Solar System Capacity Sizing and Number of Installations; Number and Identification of Solar Installers Selected

Solar Canopy and Dual Use Technology Program: FOA
Purpose: Provides grants to Maryland businesses, nonprofits, and other organizations to install solar PV canopy systems over parking structures with integrated EV charging, that provide multiple uses for land and water (e.g., floating solar arrays).
Target Audience: Businesses, Nonprofits, State Agencies, Local Governments, Educational Institutions, Agriculture, Others.
Technologies Funded: Solar PV canopy structures, EV chargers, and other dual use technologies on a case-by-case basis.
Evaluation Criteria: GHG Reductions per MEA Dollar; Benefits to LMIOU Marylanders; Additional Solar Capacity Onsite; Innovation; Project Location; Microgrid Capabilities; Public Accessibility; Frequency of Parking Lot Use; and First-Time Applicant or Not

Community Solar LMI-PPA Grant Program: FOA
Purpose: Provides grants to Maryland community solar subscriber organizations to help pay the cost of providing community solar to Maryland LMIOU subscribers at below-market rates, around 20-25%.
Target Audience: Community Solar Subscriber Organizations (applicants); Local Governments, Communities, Advocacy Organizations, Regional Planning Organizations, others (stakeholders)
Technologies Funded: No technology is funded directly. Funds are used to pay the foregone profits that subscriber organizations would have otherwise received from LMIOU subscribers had no discount been provided. Solar PV is indirectly funded.
Evaluation Criteria: GHG Reductions per MEA Dollar; Total Benefit to Subscribers; Use of Existing City / Town Roofspace; Inclusion of Energy Storage; Brownfield Siting; Public Education.

Public Facilities Solar Grant Program
Funding Opportunity Announcement
Purpose: Provides grants to Maryland public facilities to install solar PV on existing structures.
Target Audience: Local Governments, Higher Education Institutions
Technologies Funded: Solar PV (rooftop and solar canopy)
Evaluation Criteria: GHG Reductions per MEA Dollar; Resiliency to Critical Infrastructure; Ability to be Incorporated into a Resiliency Plan; Incorporating Clean Energy Educational Opportunities; Public Display of Energy Savings Generated; and EV Charging Capability.

Residential Clean Energy Rebate Program (R-CERP): FOA
NOTE: FY25 IS FINAL OFFERING
THIS PROGRAM WILL BE REPLACED BY THE SOLAR ACCESS MARYLAND PROGRAM (under development) IN JANUARY 2025
Purpose: Provides rebates to Maryland homeowners for the installation of clean energy technologies at their residences.
Target Audience: Residential Homeowners
Technologies Funded: Solar PV (including shingles), Geothermal Heating & Cooling (GHC), and Solar Thermal (aka, “Solar Water Heating”).
Evaluation Criteria: Non-competitive, first-come, first-served program. Applicants must meet minimum eligibility requirements established by the FOA.

Commercial Clean Energy Rebate Program (R-CERP): FOA
NOTE: FY24 IS FINAL OFFERING
THIS PROGRAM WILL BE REPLACED BY THE SMALL COMMERCIAL SOLAR GRANT PROGRAM (under development) IN FY25
Purpose: Provides rebates to Maryland commercial entities (businesses, nonprofits, local governments, and others) for the installation of clean energy technologies at their facilities.
Target Audience: Commercial-Scale Organizations (Businesses, Nonprofits, Local Governments, and Others)
Technologies Funded: Solar PV (including shingles), Geothermal Heating & Cooling (GHC), and Solar Thermal (aka, “Solar Water Heating”).
Evaluation Criteria: Non-competitive, first-come, first-served program. Applicants must meet minimum eligibility requirements established by the FOA.

Maryland Energy Storage Income Tax Credit Program: FOA
NOTE: FY24 IS FINAL OFFERING BY LAW
THIS PROGRAM WILL BE REPLACED BY THE STORAGE ACCESS MARYLAND GRANT PROGRAM (under development) IN JANUARY 2025
Purpose: Provides tax credits to Maryland homeowners and commercial organizations for the installation of qualified energy storage technologies.
Target Audience: Residential Homeowners, Commercial Organizations
Technologies Funded: Energy Storage (different types).
Evaluation Criteria: Non-competitive, first-come, first-served program. Applicants must meet minimum eligibility requirements established by the FOA.

Solar Technical Assistance Program: FOA
Purpose: Provides solar technical siting and assistance services through the Maryland Environmental Service (MES)
Target Audience: State Agencies, Local Governments
Technologies Funded: Does not fund any technologies directly. Funds technical assistance performed for the applying entity
Evaluation Criteria: Non-competitive, first-come, first-served program. Applicants must meet minimum eligibility requirements established by the FOA.
Energy Efficiency Section Program List and Purpose

Maryland Smart Energy Communities (MSEC)
AOI 1: Clean Energy for Local Governments (CELG): FOA
Purpose: ​The CELG program serves several purposes: it assists municipal and county governments throughout Maryland as they participate in the State’s transition to affordable, clean and reliable energy; it supports those governments with grants for clean energy projects; it increases in-state renewable energy generation (that supports the State’s renewable portfolio standard goal and its greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal); and, it supports the State’s goal for increasing the number of electric vehicles operating in state.
Target audience (customers): Local Governments
Technologies funded: Renewable energy projects, EV’s, EV infrastructure
Criteria: Option 1 provides funding up to $55,000 per proposed project or measure with multiple Option 1 awards available per community. Option 2 can provide funding up to $150,000 per project or measure, but only one Option 2 award is available per community.
CELG awards for renewable energy projects: Awards are offered up to $55,000 per project for Tier 1 renewable energy projects, including wind and geothermal. Applicants must provide 15% cost 
CELG awards for EVs: For all-electric vehicles with EPA-rated range of 0-199 miles per charge, awards are offered up to $3,750 per vehicle; for all-electric vehicles with EPA-rated range of 200+ miles per charge, awards are offered up to $7,500 per vehicle.
CELG awards for electric vehicle charging stations: will be capped at 60% of total cost (equipment + installation), or no more than $6,000 per station.

AOI 2: Public Facilities Solar (PFS): FOA
Purpose: To encourage the generation of solar energy at public facilities. To demonstrate government support of clean and renewable energy generation technology.
Target audience (customers): City, County or Municipal government entities, public universities, community colleges, and public schools
Technologies funded: For the installation of rooftop solar systems on existing public facilities, buildings, and infrastructure; or installation of solar canopies over existing parking lots or parking garages owned or controlled by a local government entity.
Criteria: The primary criteria for project evaluation is the amount of Greenhouse Gas emissions reduced per dollar of grant funding. The calculation evaluates the energy generation (kWh) per dollar of grant funding (kWh/$). A scaling factor of 3 is used. Additional evaluation criteria include: 
Project provides resiliency to critical infrastructure (2 points) 
Project is designed for incorporation into a resiliency plan (1 point)
Applicant is a school or public institution of higher education that actively teaches solar energy courses and would incorporate the solar array into clean energy educational opportunities for students (1 point) 
Project demonstrates to the public or to students the results/energy savings produced by the project (Example: A public internet dashboard or a publicly visible dashboard) (1 point) 
Solar canopy project that includes electric vehicle (EV) charging capability or is EV charger capable (1 point)

AOI 3: Clean Energy & Community Development (CECD): FOA
Purpose: The CECD program serves several purposes: it assists Maryland communities as they participate in the State’s transition to affordable, clean and reliable energy; it supports those communities with grants for clean energy projects that combine with community development projects; and it supports the State’s renewable portfolio standard goal and its greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal.
Target audience (customers): Communities, Economic Development Corporations, Local Government focused non-profits, Community Redevelopment Authorities and similar organizations.
Technologies funded: 
Energy efficiency; 
Renewable energy; 
Clean energy deployment and progress towards Maryland’s Renewable Portfolio Standard; 
Electric or Zero emission vehicle adoption and electric vehicle infrastructure deployment.
Criteria: 
Alignment with goals of the CECD grant program, which is to promote economic growth and development while reducing carbon emissions and addressing climate change; 
Tangibility and measurability of clean energy-related benefits to Maryland, or demonstrated ability to develop analysis or other aspects that can result in clean energy-related benefits; 
Feasibility and sustainability: projects should be feasible and sustainable, with clear plans for how they will be implemented and maintained over the long term; 
Impact: projects should have the potential to make a significant impact on reducing carbon emissions and addressing climate change, and should demonstrate how they will contribute to the overall mission of MEA; 
Partnerships and collaborations: projects that involve partnerships and collaborations with other organizations or groups will be given priority, as they can leverage resources and expertise and thus increase the potential impact of the projects; 
Simple payback: a useful tool for comparing the financial viability of the projects, it reveals how long it will take for the project to pay for itself based on the expected financial benefits; 
Other criteria deemed consistent with state or agency priorities.

AOI 4: Streetlight and Outdoor Lighting Efficiency (SOLE): FOA
Purpose: To identify, catalog, and install efficient LED street and outdoor lighting systems that replace existing inefficient ones.
Target audience (customers): Maryland non-profit organizations, state agencies, local governments and incorporated cities, public and private schools, and community colleges. Non-governmental applicants must be in Good Standing with the Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation (SDAT). 
Technologies funded: Light fixtures and controls eligible for funding per this FOA must be (1) located in the State of Maryland; (2) owned by Maryland-based entities, limited to non-profit organizations, county or local governments, public school systems, private schools, community colleges, or State agencies; (3) cost-effective, with the anticipated simple payback of the project being less than the anticipated life of the equipment; (4) limited to pole-mounted lighting fixtures and controls intended for outdoor illumination of roads, pedestrian pathways, parking lots and service roads, and athletic fields; (5) include LED (or other technologies) that consume less power while providing comparable levels of illumination, compared to the older technologies that they replace, such as mercury vapor (MV), metal halide (MH) or high pressure sodium (HPS); (6) not funded by previously encumbered funds; (7) not included in a scope for which a purchase order, or contract was issued prior to the filing of this application; (8) not subject to concurrent funding from other MEA loan or grant sources; and (9) dark-sky certified. 
Criteria: A complete application will: 
1. include a scope of work for the project (Project) indicating: 
a. the number, lamp (bulb) type, and wattage of existing, or incentive applications, and documentation that the pole-mounted fixtures proposed for replacement through the SOLE program; 
b. the number, lamp (bulb) type, and wattage of the replacement LED or other fixture type(s) with increased efficiency; and 
c. a description of the location(s) of the proposed lighting upgrades. See “Documentation of Project Locations” under “Required Application Documents,” below. 
2. affirm that the applicant has not already entered into a contractual obligation for the proposed lighting replacement; 
3. be signed by an individual with the authority to enter into a grant agreement with MEA to execute a lighting replacement project; 
4. if applicable, provide completed copies of utility rebate or incentive applications, and documentation that the rebates or incentives have been applied for;
5. provide a summary of anticipated funding sources to be secured for the proposed project in addition to this grant (e.g., bond funding, utility incentives, energy performance contracting); and
6. demonstrate a capital investment commitment to the proposed project by the applicant that is equal to 15% or more of the total cost, net of any utility rebates or other funding sources. 

Jane E Lawton Loan Program: FOA
Purpose: The Lawton Loan Program provides low-cost capital financing for projects that result in significant reductions in energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions by improving operational energy efficiency and energy conservation efforts. Funds are provided at below-market rates to Maryland nonprofits and businesses, and at zero financing cost to local governments and State agencies and departments, to improve access to affordable capital and spur energy efficiency and conservation projects in the built environment.
Target audience (customers): The Lawton Loan Program is open to businesses and nonprofit organizations that have legal authority to transact business or operate within the State of Maryland, Maryland counties and municipalities, and all State of Maryland governmental bodies (agencies, departments, and other State bodies and sub-units, including State colleges and universities). A business located within a residence is not eligible for a Lawton Loan.
Technologies funded: Lawton Loans are available to fund the following energy conservation measures (“ECMs”) and activities. *New in FY24 - MEA is focusing on funding projects with large GHG reduction potential and electrification of technologies such as HVAC. 
LED lighting and controls
Heat Pump replacements of fossil fueled equipment and other HVAC improvements to non fossil fueled equipment
Building envelope measures (insulation, air sealing, etc.)
Chiller replacements and other measures
Building management systems
Building automation measures
Hot water, chilled water, and steam system management measures and improvements that do not use fossil fuels or extend the service life of fossil fueled equipment
Variable frequency drives
Process-specific equipment and other measures that result in significant energy savings
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) and other gas technologies for manufacturing, critical infrastructure, large institutions and similar situations, where an electrification alternative is not available. Any applications for combined heat and power must include a technical analysis of why an electrified alternative or zero emission alternative cannot be used, this analysis should not be on the basis of operating or capital costs alone. 
Other energy efficiency and conservation measures, deemed eligible by MEA on a case-by-case basis
Criteria: 
Project Location: Projects must be located within the State of Maryland. 
Facility Ownership: Projects must be installed at a facility owned or leased by the Applicant. If leased, the Applicant must have explicit written permission from the facility owner to complete the project. Additionally, the maximum term of the Lawton loan may be further limited by the length of the lease, to avoid stranded assets. 
Application Package Documentation: An Applicant must include all documentation in its Lawton Loan Application package required by this FOA. All required documentation can be found in the Application Documents section of this FOA, which follows this section. 
Baseline Energy Consumption: All baseline energy consumption documentation provided in the application package must successfully demonstrate an accurate and complete twelve (12) consecutive month period of baseline energy usage under normal operating conditions. Periods of abnormal consumption should be noted and explained, and an estimation of normal consumption for that period should be provided. For new facilities, applicants should model baseline energy consumption using equipment required by code versus the higher energy efficient improvements. 
Energy Savings Accuracy: All energy savings, equipment, and project activity documentation provided in the application package must successfully demonstrate that the energy savings assumptions, equipment specification, and other ECM or activity metrics are accurate and reliable. Applicants should use vetted and generally accepted sources of technical information, such as a completed energy audit (preferred), the Northeast Energy Efficiency Partnership (NEEP) Mid-Atlantic Technical Resource Manual5 (most recent edition), or vetted energy modeling and simulation software. 
Historical Properties: The project, once installed, cannot create an adverse effect on the historical significance of the property, as determined by the Maryland Historic Trust. MEA’s Historic Preservation Specialist will conduct an analysis on each eligible Lawton Loan project. Further analysis by the Maryland Historic Trust may be necessary in some situations. 
Good Standing Requirements: Non-governmental project developers, site owners, and system owners must be in Good Standing with the Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation (SDAT). Applicants may supply evidence of Good Standing in one of two ways: (1) by supplying a screenshot or PDF of the organization’s status as returned in SDAT’s Business Entity Search, or by supplying its Certificate of Status, available from SDAT here. 
Applicant’s Resource Contribution: Maryland businesses, nonprofit organizations, and local jurisdictions must make a contribution toward the project. This can be, at minimum, the $250 Lawton Loan Application Fee. State agencies are exempt from the Lawton Loan Application Fee and must instead pay a one-time administrative fee equal to one percent (1%) of the initial loan balance. This fee is added to the first loan payment.

Decarbonizing Public Schools Program: FOA
Purpose: The overall intent of the Decarbonizing Public Schools Program is to prepare LEAs, also known as school districts, to expand their capacity to manage energy data and to reduce energy use and greenhouse gas emissions while designing for future high-performance schools.
Program Overview Document (ties the AOIs together in one program)
AOI 1: Capacity Building FOA
AOI 2: Energy Efficiency FOA
AOI 3: Solar on Schools FOA
AOI 4: Net Zero Energy Schools FOA
Target Audience: Maryland’s 24 Local Education Agencies (LEAs) 
Technologies Funded: 
Net Zero Energy Construction (incremental costs)
Building Systems Electrification
Boiler Electrification, LED retrofits
Building Automation Systems
Solar Energy
Criteria: Formula and Competitive. 
AOI 1 (Capacity Building): Category 1: Inclusion of an LEA Energy Policy; Utility Data Tracking; Demonstrated Need for Assistance; and Demonstrated Challenges in Resource Procurement. Category 2: Priority 1 - Experience with Net Zero Energy School Construction; Priority 2 - Demonstrated Interest in Project Follow-Through
AOI 2 (Energy Efficiency): GHG Reductions per MEA Dollar; Fund Use Justification; and Demonstrated Need for Additional EE Capacity.
AOI 3 (Solar on Schools): GHG Reductions per MEA Dollar; Fund Use Justification; Maximum Benefit to LEA and Students (Leveraging Factor); and Student, Faculty, and Staff Project Engagement Plan.
AOI 4 (Net Zero Energy Schools): GHG Reductions per MEA Dollar; Fund Use Justification; and Demonstrated Need for Additional EE Capacity; Equity / Title I Focus; Student, Faculty, and Staff Project Engagement Plan; and Net Zero Energy Educational Integration Opportunities.

Energy Efficiency Equity Program: FOA
Purpose: The Energy Efficiency Equity grant program serves the purpose of funding energy efficiency upgrades to homes and buildings that are occupied or that serve low to moderate income households based on federal poverty levels and is executed through non-profits and small government entities.
Target Audience: Non-profit organizations and small government entities
Technologies Funded:
Cost effective energy efficiency and energy conservation measures
Electrification 
Weatherization 
Electrical upgrades
Project related training assistance
Technical assessments, licenses, and engineering
Criteria: Competitive, generates significant energy savings & passes on those benefits low to moderate income residents

Mechanical Insulation Program: FOA
Purpose: Provides grant subsidies to eligible individuals, nonprofit organizations and business entities that install mechanical insulation in Maryland-based buildings and industrial processes. ​​
Target Audience: Owners of facilities large enough to require distribution of thermal resources over some distance from points of production to points of use, typically across multiple floor levels.
Technologies Funded:  Any material that measurably minimizes thermal losses from pipes, ductwork, valves and other thermal distribution assets, plus jackets or cladding applied to thermal prime movers or end-use terminal equipment. 
Criteria: Documentation of proposed savings, construction budget within the program’s prescribed criteria

Commercial, Industrial & Agricultural (CI&A) Grant Program: FOA 
Purpose: The CI&A grant program incentivizes energy efficiency investments that enable commercial, industrial, and multifamily buildings to reduce energy waste and greenhouse gas emissions. Awards are extended to investments in both existing and new construction that enable savings results greater than what is prescribed by minimum codes and standards.
Target Audience: Owners of any grid-connected office, retail, hospitality, institutional, industrial, warehouse, data centers, stationary agricultural facilities, and large multifamily residential buildings. Eligible applicant entities include registered corporations, non-profit organizations, private schools and universities.
Technologies Funded (Typical):
Lighting fixtures served through a building’s electric meter (existing facilities only)
Natural daylight harvesting/optimization measures
Heating, ventilation, or air conditioning equipment resulting in greater consumption efficiency and/or displacement of fossil-fuel equipment currently in place
Refrigeration applications, including investments that displace obsolete refrigerants
Automated occupancy sensors and controls
Building automation systems and monitoring-based commissioning systems can be considered within the context of individual applications
Building envelope improvements (insulation, air sealing, etc.)
Industry-specific manufacturing process equipment considered on an individual basis
Eligible expenses: equipment acquisition, installation, any related installation-related utility fees, and feasibility reports (only if the recommended improvements are actually installed).
Criteria: Technical merit, cost-effectiveness, clarity and completeness of proposed performance calculations. 
Transportation Section Program List and Purpose

Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Rebate Program (EVSE): FOA 
Purpose: EVSE Rebate Program provides funding assistance for the acquisition and installation of qualified electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), also known as charging stations. The program aims to incentivize the adoption of electric vehicles by reducing the upfront costs associated with EV charging infrastructure, both for commercial and residential settings.
Target Audience (Customers):
Commercial entities (businesses, fleets, etc.)
Residential users
Technologies Funded:
EVSE installations
Criteria:
Eligibility for rebate determined by compliance with program guidelines
Funding prioritization based on the impact of proposed installations on increasing EV adoption
Cost-effectiveness and efficiency of proposed EVSE installations
Alignment with program goals of promoting electric vehicle adoption and reducing greenhouse gas emissions
Maryland Clean Cities Coalition Program
Link  https://cleancities.energy.gov/about/ and https://energy.maryland.gov/transportation/pages/resources_cleancities.aspx 
Purpose: The Maryland Clean Cities Coalition works collaboratively with communities across Maryland to implement various initiatives aimed at promoting sustainable transportation practices. These initiatives include the adoption of electric vehicles, implementation of idle-reduction technologies, improvement of transportation efficiency, expansion of new mobility choices, and integration of emerging transportation technologies.
Target Audience (Customers):
Municipalities
Community organizations
Transportation agencies
Technologies Funded:
Electric vehicles and associated infrastructure
Idle-reduction technologies
Efficiency improvement measures
New mobility solutions
Emerging transportation technologies
Criteria:
Project feasibility and scalability
Potential for reducing emissions and improving air quality
Community engagement and partnerships
Innovation and creativity in addressing transportation challenges
Medium-Duty and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicle Grant Program: FOA
Purpose: The Medium-Duty and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicle Grant Program offers grants to support the purchase of qualifying zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) and heavy equipment for commercial or industrial use. The program aims to accelerate the adoption of ZEVs in medium and heavy-duty applications, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting cleaner transportation solutions.
Target Audience (Customers):
Commercial and industrial entities
Fleet operators
Manufacturers of medium-duty and heavy-duty vehicles and equipment
Technologies Funded:
Zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs)
Heavy equipment powered by alternative fuels or electric propulsion
Criteria:
Eligibility determined based on compliance with program guidelines
Funding prioritization based on the impact of proposed projects on reducing emissions and promoting ZEV adoption
Cost-effectiveness and scalability of proposed projects
Alignment with program goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting clean transportation solutions
Wind and Water Team Program List and Purpose

Maryland Offshore Wind Supply Chain Investment Program: FOA
Purpose: To support new or existing businesses entering the offshore wind supply chain in Maryland.
Areas of Interest (AOI)s:
Market Entry: 
To help offset the costs of retaining a consultant to develop a market entry plan for eligible businesses looking to enter the offshore wind industry. 
Criteria: The applicant is evaluated based on six criteria including: Alignment with Program Goals, Business Goals and Objectives, Business Overview, Feasibility, Budget and Available Resources, and Partnerships. 
Please see FOA for more details.
Capital Expenditures: 
To help offset the capital expenditures needed for the organization to enter the offshore wind industry as detailed in their Market Entry Report.
Criteria: The applicant is evaluated based on eight criteria including: Project Scope, Market Entry Report, Needs Assessment, Feasibility, Sustainability, Economic Development Opportunity, Budget and Return on Investment, and Community Support.
Please see FOA for more details.
Industry Events: 
To help offset the costs associated with attending offshore wind industry events.
Criteria: Be attending an industry relevant offshore wind or marine technology event
Please see FOA for more details.
Target audience: Emerging Business in Maryland or willing to relocate or expand into Maryland
Technologies funded: Offshore Wind Turbine Equipment

Maryland Offshore Wind Workforce Training & Education Program: FOA
Purpose: To support new or existing workforce training centers and academic institutions expand their capabilities to support the State’s offshore wind workforce training and education efforts.
Areas of Interest (AOI):
Industry Education: 
To support eligible academic institutions and non profit organizations to offset costs associated with developing and implementing an offshore wind education program to increase the general knowledge and understanding of offshore wind for the general public.
Criteria: The applicant is evaluated based on six criteria including: Project Scope, Project Work Plan, Feasibility, Needs Assessment, Budget and Available Resources, and Partnerships. 
Please see FOA for more details.
Workforce Training: 
To help offset the capital and operating expenditures associated with developing or expanding and implementing an offshore wind training program.
Criteria: The applicant is evaluated based on six criteria including: Scope, Project Work Plan, Feasibility, Needs Assessment, Budget and Available Resources, and Partnerships. 
Please see FOA for more details.
Internships: 
To help offset the costs for organizations working in the offshore wind industry who desire to hire an intern.
Criteria: The applicant is evaluated based on six criteria including: Applicant Eligibility, Equity and Inclusion, Internship Work Plan, Needs Assessment, Budget and Available Resources, and Intern Supervisor /Mentor. 
Please see FOA for more details.
Target audience: Emerging businesses, including minority-owned emerging businesses, nonprofit organizations, governmental entities, and academic institutions that are expanding their course offerings and educational opportunities for the offshore wind industry. 
Technologies funded: New or existing workforce training centers and academic institutions expanding their capabilities to support the State’s offshore wind workforce training and education efforts.
OPEN Program
Open Energy (OPEN) Grant Program: FOA 
Purpose: To allow MEA to receives proposals for energy projects and initiatives outside of the agency’s established technology and sector-specific energy programs
Target audience: Businesses, nonprofit organizations, local governments, state governments, higher education institutions
Technologies funded:
Farm-wide aggregate net-metering system
Solar-powered pond aeration system
Micro-hydro powered energy transfer station
Sterling generator Landfill (Renewable biogas)
Electric Vessel Fishing Boat
Residential and Public Curbside Charging Station
Water Energy technology
Building Energy Monitoring System
Biodiesel Optimus Technologies Transit buses
Retroffing Ambulances and Dump Trucks   
Criteria:
Value Proposition
Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Equitable Solutions
Innovation and Uniqueness
Scalability, replicability and knowledge transfer
Effective Partnerships
Past funded applications:
Evergreen Heritage Center Foundation
Maryland Environmental Service (MES)
Regional Manufacturing Institute (RMI)
Energetics
Community Ecology Institute
Prince George’s County
Howard County



